# CCExtractor Development

> TV, Rust, Flutter, Linux, VR and C. In any order.

**Technologies:** c, linux, rust, flutter
**Topics:** vr, linux, video, subtitles, mobile
**Website:** https://www.ccextractor.org
**Ideas:** https://ccextractor.org/docs/ideas_page_for_summer_of_code_2026/
**GSoC Page:** https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2026/organizations/ccextractor-development

## Description

CCExtractor Development is the creator of the de-facto captions extraction tool - CCExtractor. It is the one tool that is free, portable, open source and community managed that can take a recording from a TV show and generate an external subtitle file for it.

If you regularly watch content with subtitles you download from fan sites - you should know that the source file is most likely generated by CCExtractor. If you are a student in a university that uses subtitles for natural language study, you should know that most likely we are involved somehow.

While we already support subtitles from North America, Europe, Australia and more, our world map is not yet complete. We are actively looking for students that want to help us fill the gaps. We also want to automate many of the processes that are currently done manually, such as achieving perfect sync, our media file management.

In addition to continuously evolve our core tool, we have a growing number of new projects: support, AI, rclone, cloud, flutter, peer-to-peer and a few more that are starting to take shape.

The best part is - students have flexibility of choosing projects from a wide range of topics & technologies and even propose their own. We provide exceptional resources for students. Read more about the perks on our website.

We’re very excited to take part in GSoC for the 9th time. Most of our past students are still involved and are active in the community, which simply goes on to show how friendly and approachable is the environment. If you want to be a part of such community and help achieve our goals, come join our Slack group or mailing list!

